Generative AI :

Course objective :

1 . Define Gen AI
2 . Explain how it works 
3 . Describe Gen AI Model Types
4 . Describe Generative Applications


AI : 
It is the development of a computer systems with the theory and methods to build machines that think and act like humans .

*** Simply , AI is the branch of computer science that deals with the creation of intelligence Agents , which are systems that can reason , and learn , and act autonomously .  ***

Machine learning :
***It gives computers the ability to learn without explicit programming .***

Subset Representation:(<<-)
AI <<- ML <<- Deep Learning <<- Generative AI
Here , AI is the superset under which the remaining comes .


Deep Learning :

  It is a type of ML that uses "artificial Neural Networks " , allowing them to process more complex patterns than machine learning .
Here Artificial Neural Networks are inspired by the human brains .


Generative AI :

 definition : It is a subset of deep learning , which means it uses Artificial neural networks , and they can process both labeled and unlabeled data using supervised , unsupervised and semi-supervised methods .

*** Simply , It is a type of AI , that can create a new content based on existing data . Gen AI models learn the pattern and structure of their training data , and then generate new data with similar characteristics . ***

=> The process of learning form existing content is called training and results in the creation of a statistical model .
=> When given a prompt ,  GenAI uses this statistical model  to predict what an expected response might be - and this generates new content .

LLM ( Large language Models ) are also a subset of deep learning . LLM is a type of ML model that can perform NLP tasks Like :
 . generating text
 . Translate text from one lang to another
It can generate any kind of content like it can be an image ,or a code , or text , or a video and it can be any thing .

In general they are divided into two types ;
 1 . Generative 
 2 . Discriminative 

Discriminative :  
  . Used to predict or classify 
  . Typically trained on a dataset of labeled data 
  . Learns the relationship between the features of the data points and the labels.

Generative :
  . Generates new data that is similar to data it was trained on .
  . It Understands the distribution of data and how likely a given example is 
  . Ex : Predict next word in a sequence


Predictive ML Models ( VS ) GenAI Models :

 1 . predictive : It learns the relationship between data and label , finally it generates the output a new label .
But ,
2 . GenAI : It learns the patterns in unstructured content , and generates the output a New content .

Gen language models : They generates the result from the text we are given .
It learns from the patterns of  text and creates the results .
Input : text
output : Video / Text / Audio / Decision 

Generally we a method called "Diffusion"  to generate images from text .

How it works ?

Pre-Training :
  . Large amounts of data
  . Billions of parameters
  . Unsupervised Learning

Components :
It basically  has A " Transformer Model " that has two components :

1 . Encoder : It encodes the input sequence and passes it to the decoder .
2 . Decoder : It learns how to decode the representation for a relevant task.

In Transformers , Hallucinations are words or phrases that are generated by the model that are often nonsensical or  grammatically 
incorrect.
They are caused by numerous factors , including the model trained on not enough data or the model is trained on noisy or dirty data .
They makes the output difficult to understand . They can be an incorrect or misleading information. 


Prompting :


What is prompt ?

It is a short piece of text . Which is given to LLM as an input .
 And It can be used to control the output of the model .

Prompt Design : The quality of the input determines the quality of the output .




